World:
-(new) the backstory of virus outbreak

- You can choose comfortable timeline in the nearest future, so the world would be slightly
diffetent from current
- You don't have to be historically accurate - the new wold began on day of the 
apocalypse, no need to refer to historical facts.
- You can place the action on very diferent sets of terrain, since many helicopters 
planes were abadoned
- A place to create one/many economies or religions(like bottlecaps in Fallout).

When creating main characters for your story, you arent tied to few choices.
Zombie apocalypse gives you the oportunity to choose from any person in the whole world.
You choose who are your heroes of the story, and the avarage social barriers do not apply.
In the group you can have owner of the biggest screw factory, an engeneer working for the 
competition and worker which is also active member of labour union. They all can be in 
the same company, and have no reason to argue since the apocalypse change the traditional 
social hierarchy. Now charismatic worker which is also very handy can be the leader of the group.
While owner, could be a slave which just hope to get food next day.

Most specialized proffessions loses its meaning in posta-apocalyptic world. Old blue collar
jobs gain on value. Even if job isn't usefull daily, the strength gives advantage to 
people who worked with hands. Doctors would be in high demand, and there could be wars beetween the clans for 
the possesion of one. New proffession could evolve, or been revived from the past.
 
It is very easy to add new heroes ass plot develops. Whole world is full of survivors, and 
surviving groups. You can make allience with another group. Trade or exchange for member of 
your opponent team. There is really no limitation, on how and whith what kind of members, your 
group of heroes will expand.


Heroes
- You can include new characters to the plot, as group meets new survivors
- New religions, new trades for characters - than in reality

As it comes to environment you can decide what other factors disturbed the order of nature. 
What happens to nuclear plants when crew abadonds them? Did virus spread as a consequence of 
nuclear warfare? Was there also  other mutation of virus realeased? Did global warming or natural
catastrophes affested the place of action?

Beside affecting people to turn into zombies, did virus had other effects on people or animals?
You could build a secluded village, where people instead of turning 
into zombies after death, are reborn. Virus could infect, not only people, but also animals. 
Did virus changed people or only surfaced the hidden aggression (and taste for brains)?
There are many possbilities here, and the writer decides, on what is the nature of the virus.
I think keeping it simple on technical details and letting your characters develop the plot 
is the way to go. There are many facts to remember while reading a novel. You shouldn't expect
to remember everything from  the reader.

In postapocalyptic world there are abundence of resources and materials laying around. Its a an
opprtunity to let engeneers create big mechanical construct. Or for Biologist to create farms 
of mutated food. Someone could experiment with zombies biology, try to cure them or replicate
them.

You dont also need go full on apocalypse for your story. If only fraction people survived, most citeies
could still have working societies. There could active trade beetween the cities with old-world goverment
and countries. You can choose also to not segragate people from zombies. Zombies still could be part of society 
with for example witout the right to vote or serving as slaves. Each settlement or goverment, can have
their own policies toward zombies and in general.   

Beside plot elements a Zombie story is good material for experimenting with different genres.
Simmilar to what Fallout New Vegas did, incorporating elements of Western and Sci-fiction to the game.
You can put diaries, newspapares, email massages which would tell a short history about given location, 
or drive a investigation for your group of heroes.

Here are my thoughts, on why Zombie apocalypse is a good place to start your story. If you are a begginer
writer maybe you should consider writing your first novel about zombie apocalypse. If I will in the future 
write first novel only for practice it action will probably be in the Zombie apocalypse.

Environment & locations
- ecological, biological weapons
- Mutations of Zombies and animals (breedings zombies for food?)
- You can create different races of zombies/people 

- Various rivalizing/friendly groups (religious, bandits, political)

- You can refer too other movie genres like, horror, western,sci-fi (the easiest)
- You can create very strange locations, becouse of many different resources was left
	some engeneeries/musueam curators could construct exciting places